Report time：
20170602

Title：
Feature Extraction and Dimensionality Reduction for Machine Learning based Image Recognition
 

	

Time：
2017年6月2日（星期五）上午10:00

 

	

Address：
九里校区镜湖宾馆若愚厅

 

	

Speaker：
Xudong Jiang（新加坡南洋理工大学）

 

	

Organizer：
西南交通大学大学计算机科学与技术学院

Biography：
Xudong Jiang received the B.Eng.
and M.Eng. degrees from the University of Electronic Science and Technology of
China (UESTC), in 1983 and 1986, respectively, and the Ph.D. degree from Helmut
Schmidt University, Hamburg, Germany, in 1997, all in electrical engineering.
From 1986 to 1993, he was a Lecturer with UESTC, where he received two Science
and Technology Awards from the Ministry for Electronic Industry of China. From
1993 to 1997, he was a Scientific Assistant with Helmut Schmidt University.
From 1998 to 2004, he was with the Institute for Infocomm Research, A*STAR,
Singapore, as a Lead Scientist, and the Head of the Biometrics Laboratory,
where he developed a system that achieved the highest efficiency and the second
highest accuracy at the International Fingerprint Verification Competition in
2000. He joined Nanyang Technological University (NTU), Singapore, as a faculty
member, in 2004, where he served as the Director of the Centre for Information
Security from 2005 to 2011. He is currently a Tenured Associate Professor with
the School of EEE, NTU. He holds seven patents and has authored over 150 papers
with 30 papers in the IEEE journals, including 8 papers in IEEE Trans. Image
Processing, 5 papers in IEEE Trans. Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence,
and 3 papers in IEEE Trans. Signal Processing. His research interests include
image processing, pattern recognition, computer vision, machine learning, and
biometrics. Currently, he is an Elected Voting Member of the IFS Technical
Committee of the IEEE Signal Processing Society and serves as an Associate Editor
of the IEEE Trans. Image Processing, IEEE Signal Processing Letters and IET
Biometrics.
	

Abstract：
Feature extraction and dimensionality reduction are critical steps in Image Recognition. While we understand well about various traditional approaches in handcrafted feature extraction, the objectives and purposes of machine learning to extract effective features may not be so straightforward. It is thus not a surprise that approaches of the learning-based dimensionality reduction emerge in various research journals, many of which are in prestige journals. Many researchers and engineers find it difficult and even confused in choosing a proper approach from numerous diverse techniques due to a lack of thorough understanding of the roles of feature extraction and dimensionality reduction in the statistical inference and recognition. The different roles and effects of various dimensionality reduction techniques on facilitating a better visual object detection and recognition have not been thoroughly studied. Many fundamental yet critical issues are still outstanding or not well analyzed. This talk analyzes the fundamental problems of machine learning based feature extraction and dimensionality reduction for automated data analysis. Based on this, the speech clarifies doubts, confusions and misunderstandings about roles of the learning-based dimensionality reduction. It aims at helping audience have an in-depth understanding and gain a clear picture of machine learning-based feature extraction. A total novel concept will be presented in this talk: “Removing misleading information” to replace the conventional thought of “Extracting discriminative information” in machine learning-based data analysis.
	

