Report time：
20170723

Title：
Graphene
nanophotonics: from fundamental to optoelectronic applications 


	

Time：
2017年7月23日（星期日） 上午10:00



	

Address：
犀浦校区九教9511# 


	主  讲  人：肖三水
教授 丹麦技术大学 


	 纳米光子学专家 


	主  持  人：信息科学与技术学院
 邵理阳教授 

 


Speaker：
Sanshui Xiao 

Organizer：
西南交通大学大学计算机科学与技术学院

Biography：
Sanshui Xiao obtained
his PhD degree at Zhejiang University in 2004. In August 2004, he joined the
Royal Institute of Technology as a post-doc researcher. In 2006, he started to
work at the Technical University of Denmark, and he is now holding Associate
Professor there. His current research interests include exploration of
fundamental physics of light-matter interactions at the nanoscale and
development of graphene-based optoelectronic devices. He has co-organized
several sessions at PIERS, AME, and EMN conferences, and obtained the European
Optics Prize from the European Optical Society in 2008. He also serves the
topical editor for Applied Optics


Abstract：
With unique possibilities for controlling
light in nanoscale devices, graphene has opened new perspectives to the
nanophotonics community with potential applications in metamaterials,
modulators, photodetectors, and sensors. After having a short introduction of
the Technical University of Denmark and Department of Photonic Engineering, I
will firstly give a brief overview of recent activities/highlights in our
group, e.g., advanced theory for investigating light-matter interactions at the
nanoscale, electron spectroscopy to probe quantum plasmonics, plasmonics laser
color printing, and graphene for optoelectronic applications.  Then, I will mainly discuss how to push
graphene plasmons to the near-infrared region and how to explore graphene for
optoelectronic applications. I will present our recent results on graphene
based silicon ring-resonator modulators, graphene plasmonic waveguide
modulators, and high-energy-efficiency graphene microheats with the aid of
slow-light effect arisen from the photonic crystal waveguide.
	

